Link to [My About Page](about.md) 

Link to [My Course Photo Gallery](Images.md)

When I started this course, I assumed that digital humanities focused solely on using technology to understand and study literature. However, as the semester went on, I realized that it doesn’t necessarily have one focus; it is a highly interdisciplinary field. It involves using technology to uncover stories, analyze data, and explore a variety of areas, including history, culture, and art. Through our two main projects, Printing in Prisons and the Education Commons project, I have learned how to engage with archives and history, while discovering creative ways to interpret and present them. These experiences have helped me to understand the crucial role digital tools play in bringing past data to the present time in an accessible way. 

As I reflect on these past projects, I realize that digital humanities is not only about preserving past archives and accessing data from the past, but it is about ensuring that it remains relevant and meaningful to the audience in the present time. In the Printing in Prisons Project, I chose to focus on an individual inmate, Harry Haspel, from the Eastern State Penitentiary. Haspel’s story stood out to me because of his role as a Jewish inmate, which made him part of a minority. As a Jewish individual myself, I felt a personal connection to his identity, which made humanizing him a very intriguing assignment. At Eastern State Penitentiary, during his incarceration, Haspel acted as the Cantor for the Jewish high holidays, such as Rosh Hashanah. I am very aware of how important the role of a Cantor is to a Jewish congregation, given my own experiences as a Jew. They are not only responsible for leading the congregation in prayer and song, alongside the Rabbi, but also for fostering a sense of connection and belonging among the congregation. This role requires exceptional leadership skills and dedication to one's Jewish faith. This ultimately grew my connection to Haspel, even without knowing him personally, as it highlighted his commitment to his faith and community even in isolating prison conditions. 

Through the process of humanizing Harry Hapel, I noticed myself struggling with some ethical challenges. As I dug deeper into Harry Haspel’s background and time in prison, with the limited data that I had, I began to see the potential difficulties in representing someone’s life, especially someone who spent a significant amount of time incarcerated. This ethical dilemma that I faced ties into the larger themes of digital humanities, specifically the concepts touched on in The Ethics of Digital Data on Convict Lives, which was portrayed in the course reading assignments. This reading highlights the struggles that historical researchers face when attempting to represent individuals whose lives are documented in archives. It touches on the importance of making sure historical researchers do not come across as if they know more about the truth then they actually do. It also emphasizes the need to handle individual stories and analyses with care, ensuring that no false interpretations are made. This reading definitely resonated with my blog post on Harry Haspel, as I had to make sure to be careful about making false assumptions of his life and identity. It reinforced the need to handle archival work with great care and remain respectful to the people behind the records. 

Following this experience, we moved into the Critical Making Assignment in the Education Commons, which offered a new way to engage with the Eastern State Penitentiary data. For this project, my group was assigned with using a sewing machine to create a physical representation of any piece of the data. We chose to represent the first entry from The Umpire newspaper dataset, which recorded the scores of a baseball game played at Eastern State in 1913, between the Yangians and the Regulars. During the class visit to Eastern State Penitentiary, I had the opportunity to see the very field where these baseball games were played. It truly stuck out to me how even in a place as restrictive as a prison, people could find a sense of community through shared skill and passions. This resonated deeply with me, as I am an athlete who has grown up playing on many sports teams. Athletics have always been a way for me to build relationships and connect with others through shared experiences. Seeing that the inmates at Eastern State could obtain similar experiences to me as an athlete, through baseball, was very meaningful. Creating a patch to represent the baseball game felt like an authentic way to relate present time to the past archives. The sewing aspect of the project was a great way to work together as a team to tackle an unfamiliar tool. It was a rewarding group experience that ultimately connected my visit to Eastern State with the creative and hands on process of bringing the data to life

These projects and experiences throughout the semester shown me how interdisciplinary digital humanities truly is. Early on, we spent a great deal of time understanding how archives are digitized, exploring  special collections, and discussing stories behind the data. This included visiting the Kislak Center for Rare Books, Manuscripts and Special Collections and SCETI (Schoenberg Center for Electronic Text and Image, as well as Eastern State Penitentiary.  From there we looked into the data and moved into our own digitization and analysis. We concluded the semester learning new technologies and collaborating to bring the data to life. This course seamlessly combines exploring how data is preserved and generated with using creative methods to present it in an accessible and engaging way. 

Link to [My Looking Forward Page](lookingforward.md)
